US Election 2016: Trump seals Republican nomination

 From the section US Election 2016
Share
Jump media playerMedia player help
Out of media player. Press enter to return or tab to continue.
Media captionJames Cook on how Donald Trump become the Republican Party candidate for US president
Road to the White House

Why the Melania plagiarism row matters
Republican unity frays as convention opens
Under the skin of Trump country
Trump opts for safe choice in picking Pence
Donald Trump has officially clinched the Republican nomination for US president as speakers hammered Democrat Hillary Clinton on day two of the Republican National Convention.
Mr Trump is expected to accept the nomination on Thursday after state delegates formally selected him.
The theme of Tuesday in Cleveland was "Make America Work Again".
However, the speakers focused almost exclusively on attacking Mrs Clinton, the likely Democratic nominee.
New Jersey Governor Chris Christie, a former prosecutor, held a mock trial for Mrs Clinton as the crowd chanted "lock her up".
Donald Trump Jr. (L), along with Ivanka Trump (C) and Eric Trump (R), take part in the roll call in support of Republican presidential candidate Donald TrumpImage copyrightGETTY IMAGES
Image caption
Mr Trump's adult children led the New York delegation at the convention
Mr Christie put Mrs Clinton on trial in his speechImage copyrightGETTY IMAGES
Image caption
Mr Christie put Mrs Clinton on trial in his speech
The crowd repeatedly chanted 'lock her up!'Image copyrightGETTY IMAGES
Image caption
The crowd repeatedly chanted "lock her up!"
Mr Christie and others criticised Mrs Clinton's use of a private email account while she was serving as secretary of state.
An FBI investigation said she was "extremely careless" but found her actions didn't warrant criminal prosecution.
But Mr Christie and and the crowd disagreed as Mr Christie repeatedly yelled "guilty".
He said she has "selfish, awful judgement" and was to blame for various foreign policy problems in Libya, Syria and elsewhere.
Mr Trump's children also played a prominent role on Tuesday, standing with the New York delegation as he was declared winner and delivering remarks.
As it happened: Clinton dominates day two
Under the skin of Trump country
Why the Melania plagiarism row matters
Republicans react to Melania 'distraction'
At the scene - Anthony Zurcher, BBC News, Cleveland
Mr Trump's takeover of the Republican Party is completeImage copyrightGETTY IMAGES
Image caption
Mr Trump's takeover of the Republican Party is complete
The result hasn't really been in doubt for months, but now it's a reality. The Republican Party's nomination for president of the United States is Donald Trump's to accept when he takes the stage on Thursday night.
Thanks to a bit of procedural manoeuvring, it was New York that gave him the winning margin in the state-by-state roll call vote. His oldest son, Donald Trump Jr, voice wavering with emotion, made it official.
"Congratulations, Dad, we love you," he said.
As a band blared the song New York, New York, the jumbo screens in this converted basketball arena proclaimed "Over the Top" with exploding gold fireworks.
Perhaps there was no more fitting way to announce the elevation of the latest Republican standard-bearer, the real-estate mogul who confesses to being a bit "braggadocious" and whose rise has roiled the party establishment and turned conventional wisdom on its head.
A tough general election fight against Hillary Clinton awaits. Conventional wisdom is the odds are long, but they aren't any more remote than what Mr Trump has already overcome to get to this point.
Mr Trump youngest daughter Tiffany Trump, whose mother is former model and dancer Marla Maples told some personal stories about her father.
She recalled scribbling notes in her school report cards and how excited she becomes when introducing him to her friends.
Her father is a "natural-born encourager" who has motivated her to work hard, she said.
Tiffany TrumpImage copyrightAP
Image caption
Mr Trump's youngest daughter Tiffany said her father had helped her through difficult times
His son Donald Trump Jr described him as his best friend and role model.
"When people tell him it can't be done, that guarantees it will get done," he said of his father.
He said Mrs Clinton was a risk the US cannot afford to take and that "if she were elected, she would be the first president who can't pass a background check".
Mr Trump addressed the audience via a live-stream and said the nomination was an honour.
"This is a movement, but we have to go all the way," he said. "This is going to be a leadership that puts American people first."
A convention - all you need to know
Jump media playerMedia player help
Out of media player. Press enter to return or tab to continue.
Media captionWhat's the point of a party convention anyway?
1. What's the point? Each party formally nominates its candidates for president and vice president, and the party unveils its party platform, or manifesto.
2. Who is going? There are 2,472 delegates attending, selected at state and congressional district conventions, and representing each US state and territory. Plus 15,000 journalists and thousands of other party grandees, lawmakers and guests.
3. Who isn't going? Some senior figures who don't like Donald Trump have stayed away, including two ex-presidents named Bush, former nominee Mitt Romney and Ohio Governor John Kasich.
4. What's the schedule?
Wednesday - VP nominee Mike Pence
Thursday - Donald Trump, introduced by daughter Ivanka